I've always found the beginning of GMatt, the so-called "book of the Genealogy of Jesus Christ" to be dull. 

Really, it's just a list of names.


Mt 1:1	Βίβλος γενέσεως Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ υἱοῦ Δαυὶδ υἱοῦ Ἀβραάμ. 
Mt 1:2	Ἀβραὰμ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἰσαάκ, Ἰσαὰκ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἰακώβ, Ἰακὼβ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἰούδαν καὶ τοὺς ἀδελφοὺς αὐτοῦ, 
Mt 1:3	Ἰούδας δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Φαρὲς καὶ τὸν Ζάρα ἐκ τῆς Θαμάρ, Φαρὲς δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἑσρώμ, Ἑσρὼμ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἀράμ, 
Mt 1:4	Ἀρὰμ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἀμιναδάβ, Ἀμιναδὰβ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ναασσών, Ναασσὼν δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Σαλμών, 
Mt 1:5	Σαλμὼν δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν ⸂Βόες ἐκ τῆς Ῥαχάβ, Βόες⸃ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν ⸂Ἰωβὴδ ἐκ τῆς Ῥούθ, Ἰωβὴδ⸃ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἰεσσαί, 
Mt 1:6	Ἰεσσαὶ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Δαυὶδ τὸν βασιλέα. Δαυὶδ ⸀δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Σολομῶνα ἐκ τῆς τοῦ Οὐρίου, 
Mt 1:7	Σολομὼν δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ῥοβοάμ, Ῥοβοὰμ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἀβιά, Ἀβιὰ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν ⸂Ἀσάφ, 
Mt 1:8	Ἀσὰφ⸃ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἰωσαφάτ, Ἰωσαφὰτ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἰωράμ, Ἰωρὰμ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ὀζίαν, 
Mt 1:9	Ὀζίας δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἰωαθάμ, Ἰωαθὰμ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἀχάζ, Ἀχὰζ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἑζεκίαν, 
Mt 1:10	Ἑζεκίας δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Μανασσῆ, Μανασσῆς δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν ⸂Ἀμώς, Ἀμὼς⸃ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἰωσίαν, 
Mt 1:11	Ἰωσίας δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἰεχονίαν καὶ τοὺς ἀδελφοὺς αὐτοῦ ἐπὶ τῆς μετοικεσίας Βαβυλῶνος. 
Mt 1:12	Μετὰ δὲ τὴν μετοικεσίαν Βαβυλῶνος Ἰεχονίας ἐγέννησεν τὸν Σαλαθιήλ, Σαλαθιὴλ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ζοροβαβέλ, 
Mt 1:13	Ζοροβαβὲλ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἀβιούδ, Ἀβιοὺδ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἐλιακίμ, Ἐλιακὶμ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἀζώρ, 
Mt 1:14	Ἀζὼρ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Σαδώκ, Σαδὼκ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἀχίμ, Ἀχὶμ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἐλιούδ, 
Mt 1:15	Ἐλιοὺδ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἐλεάζαρ, Ἐλεάζαρ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ματθάν, Ματθὰν δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἰακώβ, 
Mt 1:16	Ἰακὼβ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἰωσὴφ τὸν ἄνδρα Μαρίας, ἐξ ἧς ἐγεννήθη Ἰησοῦς ὁ λεγόμενος χριστός. 
Mt 1:17	Πᾶσαι οὖν αἱ γενεαὶ ἀπὸ Ἀβραὰμ ἕως Δαυὶδ γενεαὶ δεκατέσσαρες, καὶ ἀπὸ Δαυὶδ ἕως τῆς μετοικεσίας Βαβυλῶνος γενεαὶ δεκατέσσαρες, καὶ ἀπὸ τῆς μετοικεσίας Βαβυλῶνος ἕως τοῦ χριστοῦ γενεαὶ δεκατέσσαρες. 

which the ESV gives as 

The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, bthe son of David, cthe son of Abraham.
2 dAbraham was the father of Isaac, and eIsaac the father of Jacob, and fJacob the father of Judah and his brothers, 3 and gJudah the father of Perez and Zerah by Tamar, and Perez the father of Hezron, and Hezron the father of Ram,1 4 and Ram the father of Amminadab, and Amminadab the father of Nahshon, and Nahshon the father of Salmon, 5 and Salmon the father of Boaz by hRahab, and Boaz the father of Obed by Ruth, and Obed the father of Jesse, 6 and iJesse the father of David the king.
And jDavid was the father of Solomon by kthe wife of Uriah, 7 and lSolomon the father of Rehoboam, and Rehoboam the father of Abijah, and Abijah the father of Asaph,2 8 and Asaph the father of Jehoshaphat, and Jehoshaphat the father of Joram, mand Joram the father of Uzziah, 9 and Uzziah the father of Jotham, and Jotham the father of Ahaz, and Ahaz the father of Hezekiah, 10 and Hezekiah the father of Manasseh, and Manasseh the father of Amos,3 and Amos the father of Josiah, 11 and nJosiah the father of oJechoniah and his brothers, at the time of the deportation to Babylon.
12 And after the deportation to Babylon: pJechoniah was the father of qShealtiel,4 and rShealtiel the father of Zerubbabel, 13 and Zerubbabel the father of Abiud, and Abiud the father of Eliakim, and Eliakim the father of Azor, 14 and Azor the father of Zadok, and Zadok the father of Achim, and Achim the father of Eliud, 15 and Eliud the father of Eleazar, and Eleazar the father of Matthan, and Matthan the father of Jacob, 16 and Jacob the father of sJoseph the husband of Mary, of whom Jesus was born, who is called Christ.
17 So all the generations from Abraham to David were fourteen generations, and from David to the deportation to Babylon fourteen generations, and from the deportation to Babylon to tthe Christ fourteen generations.

I've always found this to be an impenetrable list of names.  What's going on here?

The answer, of course, is that the author of gMatt is trying to justify his project--he is trying to explain who Jesus is and where his signifigance lies by giving a genealogy. 

Again and again, we'll see the authors of these documents grapple with the questions, who is Jesus? who is the Christ/Messiah? what can we expect from him? how can we know if Jesus is this Messiah?  This is going to be a central concern, not only of the gospel material, but of the epistolic material as well.  

So we can see that this is one attempt to answer those questions.  Leaving "x" undefined for now, we can see that this "book of the generation of Jesus Christ" is answering the question, "how can we know that Jesus is X?".

We can know, because he is descending from this group of people, beginning with Abraham.  

Perhaps we can say, for convenience, that X is "Jewish Messiah".

What are we to say of this tradition?

Well, first of all, it's a bit ridiculous.  Who knows if Abraham or David were real people.  Maybe, but maybe not.  Certainly the authors of this tradition were not expert genealogists or geneticists. 

It's also directly contradicted by the next passage in this very chapter--where we get the more traditional "virgin birth" narrative.  

Again, we're answering a question--how can we know that Jesus is X?  Well, because he was LITERALLY CONCEIVED BY GOD!

Here X is clearly "son of God".

Perhaps it's best to leave off here with the thoughts of Paul--probably most important interpreter of the early Church and it's traditions.  We can turn to the very interesting doxology at the start of Romans.
 

Ro 1:1	Παῦλος δοῦλος ⸂Χριστοῦ Ἰησοῦ⸃, κλητὸς ἀπόστολος, ἀφωρισμένος εἰς εὐαγγέλιον θεοῦ 
Ro 1:2	ὃ προεπηγγείλατο διὰ τῶν προφητῶν αὐτοῦ ἐν γραφαῖς ἁγίαις 
Ro 1:3	περὶ τοῦ υἱοῦ αὐτοῦ, τοῦ γενομένου ἐκ σπέρματος Δαυὶδ κατὰ σάρκα, 
Ro 1:4	τοῦ ὁρισθέντος υἱοῦ θεοῦ ἐν δυνάμει κατὰ πνεῦμα ἁγιωσύνης ἐξ ἀναστάσεως νεκρῶν, Ἰησοῦ Χριστοῦ τοῦ κυρίου ἡμῶν, 

which the ESV renders as 

Paul, aa servant1 of Christ Jesus, bcalled to be an apostle, cset apart for the gospel of God, 2 which dhe promised beforehand ethrough his prophets in the holy Scriptures, 3 concerning his Son, fwho was descended from David2 gaccording to the flesh 4 and hwas declared to be the Son of God iin power according to the Spirit of holiness by his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord,

Now, there are some intersting things here about providential history, the importance of prophecy, and this thing called the "gospel of God".  But let's focus here on his interpretation of the tradition associating Jesus with the offspring of David.  

I think it's safe to say he doesn't think much of it.  

Jesus came into being by the seed of David according to the sark, Paul writes.  

Here we can think of sark/flesh not only as something sinful or weak, which Paul again and again states, but also as something conditioned, contigent, and historical.  

Jesus had to come into the world and enter the stream of the historical process.  If the Jewish Christians at Rome want to believe that is by David's progeny, then fine.  

But it is only through his resurrection, the utter mystery which Paul claims to have witnessed, where flesh has put on immortality and indeed the particular has been manifested in the universal, that Jesus is declared and known to be 

Ἰησοῦ Χριστοῦ τοῦ κυρίου ἡμῶν

Jesus Christ our Lord.  

And thus for Paul, to ask who is Jesus, and why does he matter, we have to begin with to grapple with the ressurection experience itself. 
 
