Reading the New Testament

Part II: Matt 1:18-3

Matthew 1:18-3 contains much of the traditional Christmas material to be found in the New Testament.

We're talking about the Virgin Birth, the gift of Magi, the flight to Egypt, Herod Killing the Children (very Christmas, that) , and the return to Nazareth.

Again, like the genealogical speculations of 1:1-18, I suspect that much of this material has it's origins in the primitive church, but was then fleshed out in 60's,70's, and 80's (whenever the final redaction of Matthew reaches us).

It has no correspondance in either the Markan or Johannine traditions, and the parallel tradition recorded in Luke is not exact, to put things mildly.

So what is the purpose of this material?  I think the answer can be found by asking, why is this material so popular?  It is, really, some of the most iconic gospel material.  It is full of consolation, adventure, the supernatrual, and easily digestible archetypes.  It is in other words, the stuff of popular religions--and this is not to denigrate it!  The early Christians, had a special genius for the creation of religious traditions that have an almost univeral appeal.  But what are modern believers to make of it?

It would be very easy, after all, if we were so lucky to be visited by an angel bearing instructions on how we were to conduct our lives!  And promising safe passage and a happy outcome to whatever enterprise to which we found ourselves a part. 

But let's take the story seriously for a second.  What if we were to be visited in a dream by an angelic being? Of course, such things happen to people all the time--they just don't know what to make of it.  The myth of the nativity and the vents around it is that life is perfectly easily interpretable.

What brings me consolation and encouragment in the story of Joseph and the nativity is the humility and alacrity with which, when presented with an incredible situation seconded only, perhaps, by birth into the world, he seized on the correct course of action and executed it.  In that we can admire the idealized reflections of our best selves.
