Let's try to think concretely about the shape of policy for the next two years, and in particular 
about the first 100 days of the trump administration.  

We can think about this in three ways.

First, what did he promise to do?

Second, what are his cabinent appointments?

Third, what will he do with any legislation sent to his desk?

A quick search turns up Trump's "contract with the American voter".  We can use that to get started with question 1.

FIRST, propose a Constitutional Amendment to impose term limits on all members of Congress;
SECOND, a hiring freeze on all federal employees to reduce federal workforce through attrition (exempting military, public safety, and public health);
THIRD, a requirement that for every new federal regulation, two existing regulations must be eliminated;
FOURTH, a 5 year-ban on White House and Congressional officials becoming lobbyists after they leave government service;
FIFTH, a lifetime ban on White House officials lobbying on behalf of a foreign government;
SIXTH, a complete ban on foreign lobbyists raising money for American elections.

1) He can certainly propose such a thing, but there's no chance it happens.  Next.

2) He can do this without any constraint from anyone--let's say there's a good chance that happens.

3) Again, he can do this without constrain--so let's say it's a good chance.

4) This probably needs to be legislated.  Will there be 60 votes in the senate?  My model for thinking about the senate is that they will filibuster everything unless there is a very good policy concession they can extact.  This ain't it. 
I'd say it's very unlikely this will happen.

5) Same as 4.

6) Same as 5.

On to the next seven items.

FIRST, I will announce my intention to renegotiate NAFTA or withdraw from the deal under Article 2205
SECOND, I will announce our withdrawal from the Trans-Pacific Partnership
THIRD, I will direct my Secretary of the Treasury to label China a currency manipulator
FOURTH, I will direct the Secretary of Commerce and U.S. Trade Representative to identify all foreign trading abuses that unfairly impact American workers and direct them to use every tool under American and international law to end those abuses immediately
FIFTH, I will lift the restrictions on the production of $50 trillion dollars’ worth of job-producing American energy reserves, including shale, oil, natural gas and clean coal.
SIXTH, lift the Obama-Clinton roadblocks and allow vital energy infrastructure projects, like the Keystone Pipeline, to move forward
SEVENTH, cancel billions in payments to U.N. climate change programs and use the money to fix America’s water and environmental infrastructure

1) He has no constraint here--so this will probably happen.
2) This is certainly happening, it's already been announced.
3) The business community won't like this--but are they a real constituency empowered to constrain Trump?  Probably not, but maybe.  I'm indifferent here.
4) This is so vauge as to be unestimable.  Will there be propaganda along these lines?  Certainly.
5) Again, he has no constraint here, and the full orthodoxy of his party pushing for this. So, certainly.
6) Keystone will happen, that is certain.
7) This sounds like Brexit.  Unlikely

FIRST, cancel every unconstitutional executive action, memorandum and order issued by President Obama
SECOND, begin the process of selecting a replacement for Justice Scalia from one of the 20 judges on my list, who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States
THIRD, cancel all federal funding to Sanctuary Cities
FOURTH, begin removing the more than 2 million criminal illegal immigrants from the country and cancel visas to foreign countries that won’t take them back
FIFTH, suspend immigration from terror-prone regions where vetting cannot safely occur. All vetting of people coming into our country will be considered extreme vetting.

1) Does that mean he'll cancel the ones he doesn't like? certainly
2) certainly
3) There's no constituency to stop him.  Probably, this is a fight he wants.  Very likely.
4) Obama deported some 2.5 million immigrants in two terms.  Can Trump find 2 million in 4?  
It seems unlikely, but it was emphasized so heavily in the campaign that I'm indifferent.
5) What's to stop him--geopolitical considerations?  I'm going to intrepret this as stopping refugees from Syria
from claiming asylum here--and that is very likely.

the next nine are very concrete

1. Middle Class Tax Relief And Simplification Act. An economic plan designed to grow the economy 4% per year and create at least 25 million new jobs through massive tax reduction and simplification, in combination with trade reform, regulatory relief, and lifting the restrictions on American energy. The largest tax reductions are for the middle class. A middle-class family with 2 children will get a 35% tax cut. The current number of brackets will be reduced from 7 to 3, and tax forms will likewise be greatly simplified. The business rate will be lowered from 35 to 15 percent, and the trillions of dollars of American corporate money overseas can now be brought back at a 10 percent rate.

2. End The Offshoring Act Establishes tariffs to discourage companies from laying off their workers in order to relocate in other countries and ship their products back to the U.S. tax-free.

3. American Energy & Infrastructure Act. Leverages public-private partnerships, and private investments through tax incentives, to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment over 10 years. It is revenue neutral.

4. School Choice And Education Opportunity Act. Redirects education dollars to gives parents the right to send their kid to the public, private, charter, magnet, religious or home school of their choice. Ends common core, brings education supervision to local communities. It expands vocational and technical education, and make 2 and 4-year college more affordable.

5. Repeal and Replace Obamacare Act. Fully repeals Obamacare and replaces it with Health Savings Accounts, the ability to purchase health insurance across state lines, and lets states manage Medicaid funds. Reforms will also include cutting the red tape at the FDA: there are over 4,000 drugs awaiting approval, and we especially want to speed the approval of life-saving medications.

6. Affordable Childcare and Eldercare Act. Allows Americans to deduct childcare and elder care from their taxes, incentivizes employers to provide on-site childcare services, and creates tax-free Dependent Care Savings Accounts for both young and elderly dependents, with matching contributions for low-income families.

7. End Illegal Immigration Act Fully-funds the construction of a wall on our southern border with the full understanding that the country Mexico will be reimbursing the United States for the full cost of such wall; establishes a 2-year mandatory minimum federal prison sentence for illegally re-entering the U.S. after a previous deportation, and a 5-year mandatory minimum for illegally re-entering for those with felony convictions, multiple misdemeanor convictions or two or more prior deportations; also reforms visa rules to enhance penalties for overstaying and to ensure open jobs are offered to American workers first.

8. Restoring Community Safety Act. Reduces surging crime, drugs and violence by creating a Task Force On Violent Crime and increasing funding for programs that train and assist local police; increases resources for federal law enforcement agencies and federal prosecutors to dismantle criminal gangs and put violent offenders behind bars.

9. Restoring National Security Act. Rebuilds our military by eliminating the defense sequester and expanding military investment; provides Veterans with the ability to receive public VA treatment or attend the private doctor of their choice; protects our vital infrastructure from cyber-attack; establishes new screening procedures for immigration to ensure those who are admitted to our country support our people and our values

1) What counts as middle class?

The cbo shows that the median household tax bill in 2013 was about 8900. https://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/images/pubs-images/51xxx/51361-land-table1.png.  Will it be about 6 grand in 2017 or 2018?  I could see that as the political cover needed for much larger tax cuts up the income scale. 

2)  The constraint here is again congress.  

    He will either need to get a litle Dem support and lose no republican support, or get alot of Dem support.

    So the possible outcomes are:
      (a) huge victory: much dem support and little drop off in republican support
      (b) narrow victory: alot of dem support, with corresponding drop off in republican support, but not enough to prevent the bill from passing
      (c) narrow loss: alot of dem support, with corresponding drop off in republican support, and the bill dies
      (d) narrow loss
